# Overview
_Me_: I'm a programmer and entrepreneur. I write code, design and refine features, and talk with customers about improving their experience - and I'm happiest when I do all three. I want to join a startup to help rapidly deliver quality software that delights users.

_You_: You're a startup in the Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK (or you're comfortable working with remote employees). You are looking to hire a smart, passionate team member who can contribute across disciplines.

#Skills

## Entrepreneurship
_5 years_

* Cofounded two startups, including Devver, a Ruby tools company (TechStars '08).
* Raised $500K in venture capital (O'Reilly Alpha Tech Ventures) and angel funding.
* Brought three products to market: two cloud-based Ruby tools (a distributed test runner and a code analysis site) and a crowd-sourced product review site.
* Managed the public launch of two startups as a consultant. Aggressively prioritized business-critical features and wrote code.
* Hired and managed remote employee.
* Worked with existing and potential customers to improve features and to understand pricing.
* Managed marketing campaign on Google Adwords and Ruby Row.

## Ruby/Rails
_5 years_

* Built a [distributed unit testing tool](http://devver.net/) that ran test suites in 1/3 of time using EventMachine and beanstalkd.
* Built a Ruby code analysis site (Caliper) that integrated with rubygems.org and analyzed over 7,000 open source Ruby projects using Rails, Sinatra, and metric-fu.
* Built business-critical features and fixed bugs for [home retrofit Rails application](http://co.app.snugghome.com/).
* Built a consumer facing [product review site](http://seekler.com) on Rails.
* Built [site to automatically create newsletter](http://newsletter.flowtown.com/) from tweets for Flowtown on Rails.
* Wrote a [Rack middleware for perftools.rb](https://github.com/bhb/rack-perftools_profiler).
* Implemented location detection for [Calendar About Nothing](http://calendaraboutnothing.com).
* Wrote an [interface gem](https://github.com/bhb/tack) for test libraries (in other words, Rack for testing).
* Wrote a [gem to test filesystem interaction](https://github.com/bhb/construct).
* Wrote an implementation of the [Maybe monad](https://github.com/bhb/maybe) for Ruby.
* Analyzed and improved performance of Ruby code using perftools.rb, memprof, and awkward.
* Rewrote small section of slow Ruby code as C extension to improve performance.
* Built my [wedding website](http://wedding.bbrinck.com) using Sinatra, DataMapper, Haml, Rack::StaticCache, and rack-pagespeed.

##Javascript
_1 year_

* Built a content reader using jQuery Mobile. Made small tweaks to jQuery Mobile code to enable custom behavior.
* Built a location-based chat application using Sencha Touch.
* Created charts for Rails site using Highcharts.
* Built Opensocial Gadget using Javascript to reuse rendering logic from existing Rails web site.

##Technical Writing
_8 years_

Selected blog posts:

* [Lessons Learned](http://devver.wordpress.com/2010/04/26/lessons-learned/)
* [Building an iPhone web app in under 50 lines with Sinatra and iUI](http://devver.wordpress.com/2008/11/25/building-a-iphone-web-app-in-under-50-lines-with-sinatra-and-iui/).
* [The Maybe Monad in Ruby](http://pretheory.wordpress.com/2008/02/14/the-maybe-monad-in-ruby/)

## C# 
_2 years_

* Created automated tool that discovered dozens of bugs in C# language analysis software.
* Wrote automated tests for C# compiler.
* Wrote automated tests for C# IDE.

## Graphic Design
_15 years (hobby)_

* Designed advertisements for Devver.
* Designed internal recruitment posters, hats, and t-shirts for my team at Microsoft.
* Designed business cards, book covers, and website for Corporate Alternatives, Inc.
* Designed my wedding site.

## Java
_4 years_

* Wrote code to translate graphical representation of Java program into valid Java source code for [JPie project](http://jpie.cse.wustl.edu/)

#Work History

##dojo4
_Programmer and Consultant, 9/2010 - present_

* Designed, prioritized, and implemented critical features for clients.
* Wrote, maintained, and refactored Ruby on Rails projects.
* Implemented two mobile web products, using Sencha Touch and jQuery Mobile.
* Wrote OpenSocial gadget for Jive App marketplace.
* Designed environment and process for hosting staging and production systems on Amazon Web Services (EC2, RDS).
* Performed technical interview to help hire full-time developer for client.

##Devver
_Co-founder and CEO, 6/2008 - 5/2010_

* Designed and built web-based distributed testing software in Ruby.
* Designed and built web-based Ruby analysis site.
* Talked to current and potential users to refine features and understand demand and pricing.
* Hired and managed remote employee.
* Worked with distributed team using agile processes, video conferencing, remote pair programming, and periodic face-to-face sync up days.
* Managed deployment on Amazon Web Services and Heroku.

##Seekler
_Co-founder, 1/2007 - 5/2008_

* Built community-maintained product review site using Rails.
* Wrote code to automatically import "Top 10" lists from various web sites.

##Microsoft
_Software Design Engineer in Test, 8/2004 - 11/2006_

* Wrote and maintained a suite of hundreds of tests for the C# compiler.
* Wrote and maintained automated GUI tests for the C# IDE.
* Built custom automated tools to discover bugs in C# analysis software.
* Helped develop new automated techniques for testing the C# compiler using transformations of existing test suites.

#Education
_Washington University in St. Louis_
_2000-2004_

* Graduated Summa Cum Laude with a GPA of 3.94
* Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
* Minor in Mathematics